<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_933_104_T48_5032228113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">933.104</ph> Protests to GAO.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The GAO does not have jurisdiction over protests from subcontractors.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a)(2) The contracting officer shall provide the notice of protest.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The finding required under FAR 33.104(b)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			shall be concurred upon by the local DOE counsel with cognizance over the underlying procurement and the Senior Program Official, and approved by the SPE before the HCA authorizes a contract award. The finding shall also address the likelihood that the protest will be sustained by the GAO.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c)(2) The finding required by FAR 33.104(c)(2) shall be concurred upon by the local DOE counsel with cognizance over the underlying procurement and the Senior Program Official, and approved by the SPE before the HCA authorizes contract performance.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Notice to GAO.</i> DOE's policy is to comply promptly with the recommendations in Comptroller General decisions unless compelling reasons exist. Any decision to not comply shall be substantiated by the HCA making the award, after approval by the SPE. The report to the GAO regarding a decision to not comply with the GAO's recommendation shall be transmitted to the GAO by the HCA making the award or, if a DOE-wide policy issue is involved, the report shall be provided by the SPE.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
