<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_923_7002_T48_5032120312">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">923.7002</ph> Worker safety and health.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Atomic Energy Act mandates that DOE shall either pursue civil penalties, as implemented at 10 CFR part 851, for a violation under 42 U.S.C. 2282c, or a contract fee reduction, but not both. For a contract fee reduction—
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The clause prescribed at §§ <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344"
                  href="Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344.dita#Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344">942.71</xref>(d) and 923.7003(f), which is 952.242-71, Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, or Other Incentives, addresses contract fee reductions (for both non-management and operating contracts and management and operating contracts; for the latter, §§ <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344"
                  href="Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344.dita#Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344">942.71</xref>(d) and 923.7003(f) refer to clause prescribed in 970.1504-3(b)).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The clause provides, among other things, for an appropriate reduction to the fee, profit, or other incentives under the contract in the event of a violation by the contractor or any contractor employee of any Departmental regulation relating to the enforcement of worker safety and health concerns.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) When reviewing performance failures that would warrant a reduction of otherwise earned fee, the Contracting Officer must consider mitigating factors that may warrant a reduction below the applicable range specified in the clause. The mitigating factors are specified in the clause.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) The Contracting Officer must obtain the concurrence of the Head of the Contracting Activity: prior to effecting any reduction of fee, profit or other incentives otherwise payable under the clause at 952.942-71, Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, or Other Incentives; and prior to determining that no reduction is warranted for performance failure(s) that would otherwise warrant a reduction.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) In the event of a violation by the contractor or any contractor employee of any Department regulation relating to worker safety and health concerns, before deciding to pursue a contract fee reduction, the Contracting Officer must coordinate with the Office of Nuclear Safety within the Office of Enforcement in the Office of Enterprise Assessments (or designated successor office).
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
