<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_5222-4_T48_503264131120">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.5222-4</ph> Unemployment compensation.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 970.2270-2, insert the following clause.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">Unemployment Compensation [December 2024]
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) When under state law the contractor is permitted the option to pay unemployment claims either through the state unemployment insurance tax (pay in) or by reimbursing the state for actual claims paid out to former employees (opt out), the contractor shall provide the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Statement of Coverage.</i> The statement of coverage shall identify whether the contractor will opt into the state unemployment fund through payment of the unemployment insurance tax or opt out by reimbursing the state(s) for actual claims paid. A statement of coverage shall be provided within (fill in) __ calendar days of contract award, contract extension, or exercise of an option.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Change in Election Status.</i> The contractor shall notify the contracting officer no less than (fill in) __ calendar days before state approval is sought to change its pay in or opt out election.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Government reserves the right to request additional information to assess budgetary and programmatic risks and impact when the contractor chooses to opt out.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
