<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_233-2_T48_50325402155">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.233-2</ph> Service of protest.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 933.106, insert the following provision:
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">Service of Protest [December 2024]
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Another copy of a protest filed with the Government Accountability Office shall be furnished to the following address within the time periods described in paragraph (b) of this clause: U.S. Department of Energy, Assistant General Counsel for Procurement and Financial Assistance (GC-61), 1000 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20585, or email: <i>gaobidprotest@hq.doe.gov.</i>
                              </p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Notice of Protest File Availability.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			If a protest of this procurement is filed with the GAO in accordance with 4 CFR part 21, any actual or prospective offeror may request the Department of Energy (DOE) to provide it with reasonable access to the protest file pursuant to 33.104(a)(3)(ii). Such request must be in writing and addressed to the Contracting Officer for this procurement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any offeror who submits information or documents to DOE for the purpose of competing in this procurement is hereby notified that information or documents it submits may be included in the protest file that will be available to actual or prospective offerors in accordance with the requirements of 48 CFR 33.104(a)(3)(ii). DOE will be required to make such documents available unless they are exempt from disclosure pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act. Therefore, offerors should mark any documents as to which they would assert that an exemption applies (see 10 CFR part 1004).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Protests to the Agency.</i> The DOE's agency protest procedures are in 48 CFR 933.103. Potential protesters should discuss their concerns with the Contracting Officer prior to filing a protest. In the event that an interested party believes a protest is necessary, efforts should be made to resolve the protest at the lowest level possible.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
