<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_2702-70_T48_50326411414">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.2702-70</ph> Solicitation provision and contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Authorization and consent.</i> Contracting officers must include the clause at 970.5227-4, Authorization and Consent, instead of the clause at FAR 52.227-1.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Notice and assistance regarding patent and copyright infringement.</i> Contracting Officers must include the clause at 970.5227-5, Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement, instead of the clause at FAR 52.227-2.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Patent indemnity.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Contracting Officers must include the clause at 970.5227-6, Patent Indemnity-Subcontracts, to assure that subcontracts appropriately address patent indemnity.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Normally, the clause at FAR 52.227-3 would not be appropriate for an M&amp;O contract; however, if there is a question, such as when the mission of the contractor involves production, the Contracting Officer must consult with DOE patent counsel and use the clause where appropriate.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Rights to proposal data.</i> Contracting Officers must include the clause at FAR 52.227-23, Rights to Proposal Data (Technical), in all solicitations and contracts for the management and operation of DOE sites and facilities.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Notice of right to request patent waiver.</i> Contracting Officers must include the provision at 970.5227-9 in all solicitations for contracts for the management and operation of DOE sites or facilities.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Royalties.</i> Contracting Officers must include the solicitation provision at 970.5227-7, Royalty Information, and the clause at 970.5227-8, Refund of Royalties, instead of the provision at FAR 52.227-6 and the clause at FAR 52.227-9, respectively.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
