<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_5227-10_T48_503264131137">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.5227-10</ph> Patent rights—management and operating contracts, nonprofit organization or small business firm contractor.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 970.2703-2(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">Patent Rights—Management and Operating Contracts, Nonprofit Organization or Small Business Firm Contractor [December 2024]
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions</i>—<i>DOE licensing regulations</i> means the Department of Energy patent licensing regulations at 10 CFR part 781.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Exceptional circumstance subject invention</i> means any subject invention in a technical field or related to a task determined by the Department of Energy to be subject to an exceptional circumstance under 35 U.S.C. 202(a)(ii) and in accordance with 37 CFR 401.3(e).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Initial Patent Application</i> means, as to a given Subject Invention, the first provisional or non-provisional U.S. national application for patent as defined in 37 CFR 1.9(a)(2) and (3), respectively, the first international application filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty as defined in 37 CFR 1.9(b) which designates the United States, or the first application for a Plant Variety Protection certificate, as applicable.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Invention</i> means any invention or discovery which is or may be patentable or otherwise protectable under Title 35 of the United States Code, or any novel variety of plant which is or may be protected under the Plant Variety Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 2321 <i>et seq.</i>).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Made</i> when used in relation to any invention means the conception or first actual reduction to practice of such invention.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Nonprofit organization</i> means a university or other institution of higher education, or an organization of the type described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 501(c)) and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(a)) or any nonprofit scientific or educational organization qualified under a state nonprofit organization statute.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Patent Counsel</i> means the Department of Energy (DOE) Patent Counsel assisting the DOE contracting activity. The Patent Counsel is the first and primary point of contact for activities described in this clause.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Practical application</i> means to manufacture, in the case of a composition or product; to practice, in the case of a process or method; or to operate, in the case of a machine or system; and, in each case, under such conditions as to establish that the invention is being utilized and that its benefits are, to the extent permitted by law or Government regulations, available to the public on reasonable terms.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Small business firm</i> means a small business concern as defined at section 2 of Public Law 85-536 (15 U.S.C. 632) and implementing regulations of the Administrator of the Small Business Administration. For the purpose of this clause, the size standards for small business concerns involved in Government procurement and subcontracting at 13 CFR 121.3-8 and 121.3-12, respectively, are used.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Statutory Period</i> means the one-year period before the effective filing date of a claimed invention during which exceptions to prior art exist per 35 U.S.C. 102(b) as amended by the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, Public Law 112-29.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Subject Invention</i> means any invention of the contractor conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the performance of work under this contract, provided that in the case of a variety of plant, the date of determination (as defined in section 41(d) of the Plant Variety Protection Act, 7 U.S.C. 2401(d)) shall also occur during the period of contract performance.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Allocation of Principal Rights.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Retention of title by the Contractor.</i> Except for exceptional circumstance subject inventions outlined in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this clause, the contractor may retain the entire right, title, and interest throughout the world to each subject invention subject to the provisions of this clause and 35 U.S.C. 203. With respect to any subject invention in which the Contractor retains title, the Federal Government shall have a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States the subject invention throughout the world.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Treaties and international agreements.</i> Any rights acquired by the Contractor in subject inventions are subject to any disposition of right, title, or interest in or to subject inventions provided for in treaties or international agreements identified at DOE's Office of International Affairs (International Commitments—IEC) (<i>https://energy.gov/ia/iec-documents</i>), or other rights which are necessary for the Government to meet its obligations to foreign governments, their nationals and international organizations under such treaties or international agreements with respect to subject inventions.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Exceptional circumstance subject inventions.</i> Except to the extent that rights are retained by the Contractor in a determination of exceptional circumstances or granted to a contractor through a determination of greater rights in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this clause, the Contractor does not have a right to retain title to any exceptional circumstance subject inventions and agrees to assign to the Government the entire right, title, and interest, throughout the world, in and to any exceptional circumstance subject inventions.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Inventions within or relating to the following fields of technology are exceptional circumstance subject inventions in which the Contractor cannot retain title without specific grant of a waiver from DOE:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) Uranium enrichment technology;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(B) Storage and disposal of civilian high-level nuclear waste and spent fuel technology; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(C) National security technologies classified or sensitive under section 148 of the Atomic Energy Act (42 U.S.C. 2168); and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(D) DOE Steel Initiative and Metals Initiative.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) As determined by the DOE, inventions made under any agreement, contract or subcontract related to the exceptional circumstance subject inventions subject to specific terms outlined in those declarations of exceptional circumstance, the Contractor may take title to these inventions consistent with the terms of the contract. A complete list of declarations of exceptional circumstance, which is maintained by the Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property, include but is not limited to the following—
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) U.S. Advanced Battery Consortium;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(B) Any funding agreement which is funded in part by the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) or the Gas Research Institute (GRI);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(C) Any funding agreement related to Energy Efficiency, Storage, Integration and Related Technologies, Renewable Energy, and Advanced Energy Technologies which is funded by the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) or the Advanced Research Projects Agency—Energy (ARPA-E);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(D) Solid State Energy Conversion Alliance (SECA), if the Contractor is a participant in the “Core Technology Program”;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(E) Solid State Lighting (SSL) Program, if the Contractor is a participant in the “Core Technology Program.”
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(F) Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(G) Quantum Information Science Technologies; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(H) Domestic Manufacture of DOE Science and Energy Technologies (S&amp;E DEC).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Inventions subject to “Department of Energy Determination of Exceptional Circumstances under the Bayh-Dole Act to Further Promote Domestic Manufacture of DOE Science and Energy Technologies” (S&amp;E DEC) issued June 7, 2021, must comply with the requirements of paragraph (t) of this section to the maximum extent authorized by the S&amp;E DEC unless otherwise directed by DOE Patent Counsel in writing.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) DOE reserves the right to unilaterally amend this contract to modify, by deletion or insertion, technical fields, tasks, or other classifications for the purpose of determining DOE exceptional circumstance subject inventions.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Contractor request for greater rights in exceptional circumstance subject inventions.</i> The Contractor may request rights greater than allowed by the exceptional circumstance determination in an exceptional circumstance subject invention by submitting such a request in writing to Patent Counsel at the time the exceptional circumstance subject invention is disclosed to DOE or within eight (8) months after conception or first actual reduction to practice of the exceptional circumstance subject invention, whichever occurs first, unless a longer period is authorized in writing by the Patent Counsel for good cause shown in writing by the Contractor. DOE may, in its discretion, grant or refuse to grant such a request by the Contractor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Contractor employee-inventor rights.</i> If the Contractor does not elect to retain title to a subject invention or does not request greater rights in an exceptional circumstance subject invention, a Contractor employee-inventor, after consultation with the Contractor and with written authorization from the Contractor in accordance with 10 CFR 784.9(b)(4), may request greater rights, including title, in the subject invention or the exceptional circumstance invention from DOE, and DOE may, in its discretion, grant or refuse to grant such a request by the Contractor employee-inventor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) <i>Government assignment of rights in Government employees' subject inventions.</i> If a Government employee is a joint inventor of a subject invention or of an exceptional circumstance subject invention to which the Contractor has rights, the Government may assign or refuse to assign to the Contractor any rights in the subject invention or exceptional circumstance subject invention acquired by the Government from the Government employee, in accordance with 48 CFR 27.304-1(d). The rights assigned to the Contractor are subject to any provision of this clause that is applicable to subject inventions in which the Contractor retains title, including reservation by the Government of a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license, except that the Contractor shall file its initial patent application claiming the subject invention or exceptional circumstance invention within one (1) year after the assignment of such rights. The Contractor shall share royalties collected for the manufacture, use or sale of the subject invention with the Government employee.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Subject invention disclosure, election of title and filing of patent application by contractor</i>—
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Subject invention disclosure.</i> The contractor will disclose each subject invention to the Patent Counsel within two months after the inventor discloses it in writing to contractor personnel responsible for patent matters. The disclosure to the agency shall be in the form of a written or electronic report and shall identify the contract or any other agreement under which the invention was made and the inventor(s) and all sources of funding by Budget and Resources (B&amp;R) code for the invention. The funding program may require other invention identifiers such as related award numbers or funding opportunity announcement numbers. It shall be sufficiently complete in technical detail to convey a clear understanding to the extent known at the time of the disclosure, of the nature, purpose, operation, and the physical, chemical, biological or electrical characteristics of the invention. The disclosure shall also identify any publication, on sale or public use of the invention and whether a manuscript describing the invention has been submitted or made available for publication at the time of disclosure. The disclosure shall identify if the invention falls within an exceptional circumstance field. DOE will make a determination and advise the Contractor within 30 days of receipt of an invention disclosure as to whether the invention is an exceptional circumstance subject invention. In addition, after disclosure to the Patent Counsel, the Contractor will notify the agency of any accepted manuscript describing the invention for publication or of any on sale or public use planned by the contractor that is 60 days prior to the end of the Statutory Period. The Contractor shall notify Patent Counsel prior to any release or publication of information concerning any nonelectable subject invention such as an exceptional circumstance subject invention or any subject invention related to a treaty or international agreement.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) <i>Election by the Contractor.</i> Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause, the Contractor will elect in writing whether or not to retain title to any such invention by notifying the Federal agency within two years of disclosure to the Federal agency. However, in any case where publication, on sale or public use has initiated the statutory period wherein valid patent protection can still be obtained in the United States, the period for election of title may be shortened by the agency to a date that is no more than 60 days prior to the end of the statutory period.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(3) <i>Filing of patent applications by the Contractor.</i> The Contractor will file its initial patent application on a subject invention to which it elects to retain title within one year after election of title or, if earlier, or prior to the end of any statutory period wherein valid patent protection can be obtained in the United States after a publication, on sale, or public use. The Contractor will file patent applications in additional countries or international patent offices within either ten months of the corresponding first filed patent application or six months from the date permission is granted by the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks to file foreign patent applications where such filing has been prohibited by a Secrecy Order.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(4) <i>Contractor's request for an extension of time.</i> Requests for an extension of the time for disclosure, election, and filing under paragraphs (c)(1), (2), and (3) of this clause may, at the discretion of Patent Counsel, be granted.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(5) <i>Publication review.</i> During the course of the work under this contract, the Contractor may desire to release or publish information regarding scientific or technical developments conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under this contract. Contractor's Invention Identification Procedures under paragraph (f)(5) of this clause should address timely disclosure of inventions, consider whether review is required, and if so, facilitate such review by Contractor personnel responsible for patent matters prior to disclosure of publications in order that public disclosure of such information will not adversely affect the patent interest of DOE or the Contractor.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(6) <i>Reporting to DOE and Approvals.</i> Whenever possible in this paragraph (c), the Government electronic reporting system (<i>e.g.,</i> iEdison or similar system) shall be used for reporting and approvals.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Conditions when the Government may obtain title.</i> The Contractor will convey to the DOE, upon written request, title to any subject invention—
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) If the Contractor fails to disclose or elect title to the subject invention within the times specified in paragraph (c) of this clause, or elects not to retain title.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) In those countries in which the Contractor fails to file a patent application within the times specified in paragraph (c) of this clause; provided, however, that if the Contractor has filed a patent application in a country after the times specified in paragraph (c), but prior to its receipt of the written request of the DOE, the Contractor shall continue to retain title in that country.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) In any country in which the Contractor decides not to continue the prosecution of any application for, to pay the maintenance fees on, or defend in a reexamination or opposition proceeding on, a patent on a subject invention.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) If the Contractor requests that DOE acquire title or rights from the Contractor in a subject invention to which the Contractor had initially retained title or rights, or in an exceptional circumstance subject invention to which the Contractor was granted greater rights, DOE may acquire such title or rights from the Contractor, or DOE may decide against acquiring such title or rights from the Contractor, at DOE's sole discretion.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Upon a breach of paragraph (t) of this clause.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Minimum rights of the Contractor and protection of the Contractor's right to file</i>—
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Request for a Contractor license.</i> The Contractor may request the right to reserve a revocable, nonexclusive, royalty-free license throughout the world in each subject invention to which the Government obtains title, except if the Contractor fails to disclose the invention within the times specified in paragraph (c) of this clause. DOE may grant or refuse to grant such a request by the Contractor. When DOE approves such reservation, the Contractor's license will normally extend to its domestic subsidiaries and affiliates, if any, within the corporate structure of which the Contractor is a party and includes the right to grant sublicenses of the same scope to the extent the Contractor was legally obligated to do so at the time the contract was awarded. The license is transferable only with the approval of DOE, except when transferred to the successor of that part of the contractor's business to which the invention pertains.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) <i>Revocation or modification of a Contractor license.</i> The Contractor's domestic license may be revoked or modified by DOE to the extent necessary to achieve expeditious practical application of the subject invention pursuant to an application for an exclusive license submitted in accordance with applicable provisions at 37 CFR part 404 and DOE licensing regulations at 10 CFR part 781. This license will not be revoked in the field of use or the geographical areas in which the Contractor has achieved practical application and continues to make the benefits of the subject invention reasonably accessible to the public. The license in any foreign country may be revoked or modified at the discretion of DOE to the extent the Contractor, its licensees, or the domestic subsidiaries or affiliates have failed to achieve practical application of the subject invention in that foreign country.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(3) <i>Notice of revocation of modification of a Contractor license.</i> Before revocation or modification of the license, DOE will furnish the Contractor a written notice of its intention to revoke or modify the license, and the Contractor will be allowed thirty days (or such other time as may be authorized by DOE for good cause shown by the Contractor) after the notice to show cause why the license should not be revoked or modified. The Contractor has the right to appeal, in accordance with applicable regulations in 37 CFR part 404 and DOE licensing regulations at 10 CFR part 781 concerning the licensing of Government owned inventions, any decision concerning the revocation or modification of the license.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Contractor action to protect the Government's interest</i>—
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Execution of delivery of title or license instruments.</i> The Contractor agrees to execute or to have executed, and promptly deliver to the Patent Counsel all instruments necessary to accomplish the following actions:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Establish or confirm the rights the Government has throughout the world in those subject inventions to which the Contractor elects to retain title; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(ii) Convey title to DOE when requested under paragraph (b) or (d) of this clause and to enable the Government to obtain patent protection throughout the world in that subject invention.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) <i>Contractor employee agreements.</i> The Contractor agrees to require, by written agreement, its employees, other than clerical and nontechnical employees, to disclose promptly in writing to Contractor personnel identified as responsible for the administration of patent matters and in a format suggested by the Contractor, each subject invention made under this contract in order that the Contractor can comply with the disclosure provisions of paragraph (c) of this clause, and to execute all papers necessary to file patent applications on subject inventions and to establish the Government's rights in the subject inventions. This disclosure format should require, as a minimum, the information required by paragraph (c)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this clause. The Contractor shall instruct such employees, through employee agreements or other suitable educational programs, on the importance of reporting inventions in sufficient time to permit the filing of patent applications prior to U.S. or foreign statutory bars.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(3) <i>Notification of discontinuation of patent protection.</i> The contractor will notify the Patent Counsel of any decision not to file a patent application, continue the prosecution of a patent application, pay maintenance fees, or defend in a reexamination or opposition proceeding on a patent, in any country, not less than 60 days before the expiration of the response period required by the relevant patent office.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(4) <i>Notification of Government rights.</i> The contractor agrees to include, within the specification of any United States patent applications and any patent issuing thereon covering a subject invention, the following statement, “This invention was made with government support under (identify the contract) awarded by (identify the Federal agency). The government has certain rights in the invention.”
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(5) <i>Invention identification procedures.</i> The Contractor shall establish and maintain active and effective procedures to ensure that subject inventions are promptly identified and timely disclosed and shall submit a written description of such procedures to the Contracting Officer so that the Contracting Officer may evaluate and determine their effectiveness.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(6) <i>Patent filing documentation.</i> If the Contractor files a domestic or foreign patent application claiming a subject invention, the Contractor shall promptly submit to Patent Counsel, upon request, the following information and documents:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The filing date, serial number, title, and a copy of the patent application (including an English-language version if filed in a language other than English);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(ii) An executed and approved instrument fully confirmatory of all Government rights in the subject invention; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(iii) The patent number, issue date, and a copy of any issued patent claiming the subject invention.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(7) <i>Duplication and disclosure of documents.</i> The Government may duplicate and disclose subject invention disclosures and all other reports and papers furnished or required to be furnished pursuant to this clause; provided, however, that any such duplication or disclosure by the Government is subject to the confidentiality provision at 35 U.S.C. 205 and 37 CFR part 401.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Subcontracts</i>—
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Subcontractor subject inventions.</i> The Contractor shall not obtain rights in the subcontractor's subject inventions as part of the consideration for awarding a subcontract.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) <i>Inclusion of patent rights clause—non-profit organization or small business firm subcontractors.</i> Unless otherwise authorized or directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall include the patent rights clause at 37 CFR 401.14 with Alternate I of 48 CFR 952.227-11, Patent Rights—Retention by the Contractor, suitably modified to identify the parties, in all subcontracts, at any tier, for experimental, developmental, demonstration or research work to be performed by a small business firm or domestic nonprofit organization, except subcontracts which are subject to exceptional circumstances in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 202 and paragraph (b)(3) of this clause. The subcontractor retains all rights provided for the contractor in the patent rights clause at 37 CFR 401.3(a) and 401.14. If the S&amp;E DEC, or any other related DEC, is applicable (see paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this clause), the Contractor shall use Alternate II of DEAR 952.227-11, Patent Rights—Retention by the Contractor.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(3) <i>Inclusion of patent rights clause—subcontractors other than non-profit organizations and small business firms.</i> Except for the subcontracts described in paragraph (g)(2) of this clause, the Contractor shall include the patent rights clause at 48 CFR 952.227-13, suitably modified to identify the parties, in any contract for experimental, developmental, demonstration or research work. For subcontracts subject to a patent waiver granted by DOE Patent Counsel, the contractor must consult with DOE patent counsel with respect to the appropriate patent clause. For subcontracts subject to exceptional circumstances, the contractor must consult with DOE patent counsel with respect to the appropriate patent clause which may require the use of Alternate II of 48 CFR 952.227-13 Patent Rights—Acquisition by the Government.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(4) <i>DOE and subcontractor contract.</i> With respect to subcontracts at any tier, DOE, the subcontractor, and the Contractor agree that the mutual obligations of the parties created by this clause constitute a contract between the subcontractor and DOE with respect to the matters covered by the clause; provided, however, that nothing in this paragraph is intended to confer any jurisdiction under the Contract Disputes Act in connection with proceedings under paragraph (j) of this clause.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(5) <i>Subcontractor refusal to accept terms of patent clause.</i> If a prospective subcontractor refuses to accept the terms of a patent rights clause, the Contractor shall promptly submit a written notice to the Contracting Officer stating the subcontractor's reasons for such a refusal, including any relevant information for expediting disposition of the matter, and the Contractor shall not proceed with the subcontract without the written authorization of the Contracting Officer.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(6) <i>Notification of award of subcontract.</i> Upon the award of any subcontract at any tier containing a patent rights clause, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer in writing and identify the subcontractor, the applicable patent rights clause, the work to be performed under the subcontract, and the dates of award and estimated completion. Upon request of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall furnish a copy of a subcontract.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(7) <i>Identification of subcontractor subject inventions.</i> If the Contractor in the performance of this contract becomes aware of a subject invention made under a subcontract, the Contractor shall promptly notify Patent Counsel and identify the subject invention.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Reporting on utilization of subject inventions.</i> The Contractor agrees to submit to DOE on request, periodic reports, no more frequently than annually, on the utilization of a subject invention or on efforts at obtaining such utilization that are being made by the Contractor or its licensees or assignees. In addition, the Contractor shall provide data to DOE for the annual data call for the Department of Commerce report that includes the number of patent applications filed, the number of patents issued, licensing activity, gross royalties received by the Contractor, and such other data and information as DOE may reasonably specify. The Contractor also agrees to provide additional reports as may be requested by DOE in connection with any march-in proceeding undertaken by DOE in accordance with paragraph (j) of this clause. As required by 35 U.S.C. 202(c)(5), DOE agrees it will not disclose such information to persons outside the Government without permission of the Contractor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) <i>Preference for United States Industry.</i> Notwithstanding any other provision of this clause, the Contractor agrees that neither it nor any assignee will grant to any person the exclusive right to use or sell any subject invention in the United States unless such person agrees that any product embodying the subject invention or produced through the use of the subject invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States. However, in individual cases, the requirement for such an agreement may be waived by DOE upon a showing by the Contractor or its assignee that reasonable but unsuccessful efforts have been made to grant licenses on similar terms to potential licensees that would be likely to manufacture substantially in the United States or that under the circumstances domestic manufacture is not commercially feasible.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(j) <i>March-in Rights.</i> The Contractor agrees that, with respect to any subject invention in which it has acquired title, DOE has the right under 35 U.S.C. 203 and in accordance with the procedures in 37 CFR 401.6 and any DOE supplemental regulations to require the Contractor, an assignee or exclusive licensee of a subject invention to grant a nonexclusive, partially exclusive, or exclusive license in any field of use to a responsible applicant or applicants, upon terms that are reasonable under the circumstances, and, if the Contractor, assignee or exclusive licensee refuses such a request, DOE has the right to grant such a license itself under applicable law stated above.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(k) <i>Special provisions for contracts with nonprofit organizations.</i> If the Contractor is a nonprofit organization, it agrees that—
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>DOE approval of assignment of rights.</i> Rights to a subject invention in the United States may not be assigned by the Contractor without the approval of DOE, except where such assignment is made to an organization which has as one of its primary functions the management of inventions; provided, that such assignee will be subject to the same provisions of this clause as the Contractor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Small business firm licensees.</i> It will make efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to attract licensees of subject inventions that are small business firms, and that it will give a preference to a small business firm when licensing a subject invention if the Contractor determines that the small business firm has a plan or proposal for marketing the invention which, if executed, is equally as likely to bring the invention to practical application as any plans or proposals from applicants that are not small business firms; provided, that the Contractor is also satisfied that the small business firm has the capability and resources to carry out its plan or proposal. The decision whether to give a preference in any specific case will be at the discretion of the Contractor. However, the Contractor agrees that the Secretary of Commerce may review the Contractor's licensing program and decisions regarding small business firm applicants, and the Contractor will negotiate changes to its licensing policies, procedures, or practices with the Secretary of Commerce when that Secretary's review discloses that the Contractor could take reasonable steps to more effectively implement the requirements of this paragraph (k)(2).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Contractor licensing of subject inventions.</i> To the extent that it provides the most effective technology transfer, licensing of subject inventions shall be administered by Contractor employees on location at the facility.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(l) <i>Communications.</i> The Contractor shall direct any notification, disclosure or request provided for in this clause to the Patent Counsel assisting the DOE contracting activity.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(m) <i>Reports</i>—
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Interim reports.</i> Upon DOE's request, the Contractor shall submit to DOE, no more frequently than annually, a list of subject inventions disclosed to DOE during a specified period, or a statement that no subject inventions were made during the specified period; and a list of subcontracts containing a patent clause and awarded by the Contractor during a specified period, or a statement that no such subcontracts were awarded during the specified period.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) <i>Final reports.</i> Upon DOE's request, the Contractor shall submit to DOE, prior to closeout of the contract, a list of all subject inventions disclosed during the performance period of the contract, or a statement that no subject inventions were made during the contract performance period; and a list of all subcontracts containing a patent clause and awarded by the Contractor during the contract performance period under which a subject invention was reported, or a statement that no such subject inventions under subcontracts were reported during the contract performance period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(n) <i>Examination of Records Relating to Subject Inventions</i>—
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Contractor compliance.</i> Until the expiration of three (3) years after final payment under this contract, the Contracting Officer or any authorized representative may examine any books (including laboratory notebooks), records, documents, and other supporting data of the Contractor, which the Contracting Officer or authorized representative deems reasonably pertinent to the discovery or identification of subject inventions, including exceptional circumstance subject inventions, or to determine Contractor compliance with any requirement of this clause.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) <i>Unreported inventions.</i> If the Contracting Officer is aware of an invention that is not disclosed by the Contractor to DOE, and the Contracting Officer believes the unreported invention may be a subject invention, including exceptional circumstance subject inventions, DOE may require the Contractor to submit to DOE a disclosure of the invention for a determination of ownership rights.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(3) <i>Confidentiality.</i> Any examination of records under this paragraph is subject to appropriate conditions to protect the confidentiality of the information involved.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(4) <i>Power of inspection.</i> With respect to a subject invention for which the Contractor has responsibility for patent prosecution, the Contractor shall furnish the Government, upon request by DOE, an irrevocable power to inspect and make copies of a prosecution file for any patent application claiming the subject invention.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(o) <i>Facilities License.</i> In addition to the rights of the parties with respect to inventions or discoveries conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under this contract, the Contractor agrees to and does hereby grant to the Government an irrevocable, nonexclusive, paid-up license in and to any inventions or discoveries regardless of when conceived or actually reduced to practice or acquired by the Contractor at any time through completion of this contract and which are incorporated or embodied in the construction of the facility or which are utilized in the operation of the facility or which cover articles, materials, or product manufactured at the facility.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) To practice or have practiced by or for the Government at the facility; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) To transfer such license with the transfer of that facility. Notwithstanding the acceptance or exercise by the Government of these rights, the Government may contest at any time the enforceability, validity or scope of, or title to, any rights or patents herein licensed.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(p) <i>Atomic Energy</i>—
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Pecuniary awards.</i> No claim for pecuniary award of compensation under the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, may be asserted with respect to any invention or discovery made or conceived in the course of or under this contract.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) <i>Patent agreements.</i> Except as otherwise authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall obtain patent agreements to effectuate the provisions of paragraph (p)(1) of this clause from all persons who perform any part of the work under this contract, except nontechnical personnel, such as clerical employees and manual laborers.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(q) <i>Classified inventions</i>—
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Approval for filing a foreign patent application.</i> The Contractor shall not file or cause to be filed an application or registration for a patent disclosing a subject invention related to classified subject matter in any country other than the United States without first obtaining the written approval of the Contracting Officer.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) <i>Transmission of classified subject matter.</i> If in accordance with this clause the Contractor files a patent application in the United States disclosing a subject invention that is classified for reasons of security, the Contractor shall observe all applicable security regulations covering the transmission of classified subject matter. If the Contractor transmits a patent application disclosing a classified subject invention to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), the Contractor shall submit a separate letter to the USPTO identifying the contract or contracts by agency and agreement number that require security classification markings to be placed on the patent application.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(3) <i>Inclusion of clause in subcontracts.</i> The Contractor agrees to include the substance of this clause in subcontracts at any tier that cover or are likely to cover subject matter classified for reasons of security.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(r) <i>Patent functions.</i> Upon the written request of the Contracting Officer or Patent Counsel, the Contractor agrees to make reasonable efforts to support DOE in accomplishing patent-related functions for work arising out of the contract, including, but not limited to, the prosecution of patent applications, and the determination of questions of novelty, patentability, and inventorship.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(s) <i>Educational awards subject to 35 U.S.C. 212.</i> The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer prior to the placement of any person subject to 35 U.S.C. 212 in an area of technology or task 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			related to exceptional circumstance technology or (2) which is subject to treaties or international agreements as set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this clause or agreements other than funding agreements. The Contracting Officer may disapprove of any such placement.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(t) <i>U.S. Competitiveness.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Consistent with 48 CFR 970.5227-3(f) U.S. Industrial Competitiveness, for all subject inventions under the S&amp;E DEC, the Contractor agrees that any products embodying any subject invention or produced through the use of any subject invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States unless the Contractor can show to the satisfaction of DOE that it is not commercially feasible. In the event DOE agrees to foreign manufacture, there will be a requirement that the Government's support of the technology be recognized in some appropriate manner, <i>e.g.,</i> alternative binding commitments to provide an overall net benefit to the U.S. economy. The Contractor agrees that it will not license, assign or otherwise transfer any subject invention to any entity, at any tier, unless that entity agrees to these same requirements. In the event that the Contractor or other such entity receiving rights in the Subject Invention undergoes a change in ownership amounting to a controlling interest, the Contractor or other such entity receiving rights shall ensure continual compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (t)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			and shall inform DOE, in writing, of the change in ownership within six months of the change. The Contractor and any successor assignee will convey to DOE, upon written request from DOE, title to any subject invention, upon a breach of this paragraph (t)(1). The Contractor will include this paragraph (t) in all subawards/contracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental or research work.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The requirements, rights and administration of paragraph (t)(1) of this clause are further clarified as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) <i>Waivers.</i> The Contractor (or any entity subject to this paragraph) may request a waiver or modification of paragraph (t)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this clause. Such waivers or modifications may be granted when DOE determines that:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(A) The Contractor (or any entity subject to paragraph (t)(1) of this clause) has demonstrated, with quantifiable data, that manufacturing in the United States is not commercially feasible; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(B) A waiver or modification would best serve the interests of the United States and the general public.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(ii) <i>Final determination of breach of paragraph (t)(1) of this clause.</i> If DOE determines the Contractor is in breach of paragraph (t)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this clause, the Department may issue a final written determination of such breach. If such determination includes a demand for title to the subject inventions under the award, the demand for title will cause an immediate conveyance and assignment of all rights to all subject inventions subject to the breach to the United States Government, including all pending U.S. and foreign patent applications and all U.S. and foreign patents that cover any subject invention, without compensation. Any such final determination shall be signed by the cognizant DOE Contracting Officer with the concurrence of the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer &amp; Intellectual Property. Advanced notice will be provided for comment to the Contractor before any final written determination by DOE is issued.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(iii) Pursuant to Contractor's agreement in paragraph (t)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this clause to not license, assign or otherwise transfer rights to subject inventions at any tier unless the entity agrees to paragraph (t)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this clause: any such license, assignment, or other transfer of right to any subject invention developed under the award shall contain paragraph (t)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this clause suitably modified to properly identify the parties. If a licensee, assignee, or other transferee of rights to any subject invention is finally determined by DOE in writing to be in breach of paragraph (t)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this clause, the applicable license, assignment or other transfer shall be deemed null and void. Advanced notice will be provided for comment to the non-complying party before any final written determination by DOE is made.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(iv) For clarity, if the forfeiture of title to any subject invention is due to a breach of paragraph (t)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this clause, the Contractor shall not be entitled to any compensation, or to a license to the subject invention including the reserved license in paragraph (e)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this clause, unless DOE grants a license through a separately agreed upon licensing agreement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(u) <i>Annual appraisal by Patent Counsel.</i> Patent Counsel may conduct an annual appraisal to evaluate the Contractor's effectiveness in identifying and protecting subject inventions in accordance with DOE policy.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(v) <i>Unauthorized Access.</i> The contractor will protect all invention reports, unpublished patent applications and other invention related information from unauthorized access and disclosure using at least commonly available techniques and practices. In the event that the Contractor becomes aware of unauthorized access to invention reports, unpublished patent applications and other invention related information, the Contractor shall notify Patent Counsel within 7 days.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Alternate 1 Weapons Related Subject Inventions.</i> As prescribed at 970.2703-2(g), insert the following definition in paragraph (a) and add paragraph (b)(7), respectively:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions</i>—<i>Weapons related subject invention</i> means any subject invention conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under work funded by or through defense programs, including Department of Defense and intelligence reimbursable work, or the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program of the Department of Energy or the National Nuclear Security Administration.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Allocation of Principal Rights</i>—(7) <i>Weapons related subject inventions.</i> Except to the extent that DOE is solely satisfied that the Contractor meets certain procedural requirements and DOE grants rights to the Contractor in weapons related subject inventions, the Contractor does not have the right to retain title to any weapons related subject inventions.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of alternate)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
