<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_904_401_T48_503185111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">904.401</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Access authorization</i> means an administrative determination that an individual is eligible for access to classified information or is eligible for access to, or control over, special nuclear material under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954; Executive Order 12968, Access to Classified Information, dated August 2, 1995; or 10 CFR part 710.



 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Applicant</i> means an individual who has submitted an expression of interest in employment; who is under consideration by the contractor for employment in a particular position; and who has not removed himself or herself from further consideration or otherwise indicated that he or she is no longer interested in the position.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Classified information</i> or <i>Classified National Security Information</i> mean information officially determined to be Restricted Data, Formerly Restricted Data, or Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or information determined to require protection under Executive Order 13526, Classified National Security Information, dated December 29, 2009.






</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Counterintelligence</i> means information gathered and activities conducted to protect against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted for or on behalf of foreign powers, organizations or persons, or international terrorist activities, but not including personnel, physical, document or communication security programs.


</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Facility clearance</i> means an administrative determination that a facility is eligible to access, produce, use or store classified information, or special nuclear material. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Restricted data</i> means all data concerning design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons; production of special nuclear material; or use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but excluding data declassified or removed from the restricted data category pursuant to Section 142, as amended, of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2162).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Review or background review</i> means a Contractor's assessment of the background of an uncleared applicant or uncleared employee for a position requiring a DOE access authorization prior to selecting that individual for such a position.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
