<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_904_404_T48_503185113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">904.404</ph> Solicitation provision and contract clause.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The security clauses to be used in DOE contracts are found at 952.204. They are:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Security, 952.204-2.</i> This clause is required in contracts and subcontracts, the performance of which involves or is likely to involve classified information, access to special nuclear materials or the provision of protective services. This includes contracts awarded under simplified acquisition procedures, as well as National Security Program contracts, under which access to proscribed information is required. Although DOE utilizes the National Industrial Security Program, DOE's security authority is derived from the Atomic Energy Act which contains specific language not found in other agencies' authorities. For this reason, DOE contracts must contain the clause at 952.204-2 rather than the clause at FAR 52.204-2 and Contracting Officers must incorporate DOE Form 470.1 or equivalent.


</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Classification/Declassification, 952.204-70.</i> This clause is to be used in all contracts which involve classified information.




</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Sensitive foreign nation controls, 952.204-71.</i> This clause is required in unclassified research contracts which may involve sharing unclassified information about nuclear technology with certain sensitive foreign nations. The contractor shall be provided at the time of award the listing of nations referenced in DOE Order 142.3, Unclassified Foreign Visits and Assignments Program, or its successor. (The attachment referred to in the clause shall set forth the applicable requirements of the DOE regulations on dissemination of unclassified published and unpublished technical information to foreign nations.)


</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Disclosure of information, 952.204-72.</i> This clause may be used in place of the clauses entitled “Security” and “Classification” in contracts with educational institutions for research work performed in their own institute facilities that are not likely to produce classified information.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Facility Clearance, 952.204-73.</i> This solicitation provision should be used in solicitations expected to result in contracts and subcontracts that require employees to possess access authorizations.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) <i>Computer Security, 952.204-77.</i> This clause is required in contracts in which the contractor may have access to computers owned, leased or operated on behalf of the Department of Energy.


</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) <i>Counterintelligence.</i> The Contracting Officer shall include the clause at 952.204-74, Counterintelligence, in all contracts that include the clauses at 952.204-2, Security Requirements, and 952.204-70, Classification/Declassification.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
