<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_1504-105_T48_5032641717">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.1504-105</ph> Fee base.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The total fee base for a one-year period (see step 1 located at 970.1504-104(b)(1)) is an estimate of the allowable costs for the one-year period, with some exclusions. (Estimates for Strategic Partnership Projects may be included in the total fee base, where appropriate.) The total fee base excludes estimates of allowable costs for: source and special nuclear materials; land, buildings, and facilities (whether they are to be leased, purchased or constructed); depreciation of Government facilities; and efforts for which a separate fee is to be negotiated.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) In addition to the exclusions in paragraph (a) of the section, the total fee base excludes:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Any part of the estimated allowable cost of capital equipment that the contractor procures by subcontract and other similar costs that are of such magnitude or nature as to distort the technical and management effort required of the contractor;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) At least 20% of the estimated allowable cost of subcontracts and other major contractor procurements, with the excluded amount increasing as the contractor's estimated required management effort decreases;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Estimates of allowable home office or corporate general and administrative expenses that will be reimbursed;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Any cost of work funded with uncosted balances previously included in a fee base of this or any other contract performed by the contractor;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Cost of rework attributable to the contractor; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) State taxes.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The total fee base does not reflect any fee or compensation for unusual architect-engineer or construction services provided by the M&amp;O contractor. Architect-engineer and construction services are normally covered by special agreements based on the policies applying to architect-engineer or construction contracts. The fees for such services shall be calculated per 915.404-4800 and added to the fees calculated using the production, R&amp;D, and EM schedules. The total fee base also does not reflect any fee or compensation for special equipment purchases. The fees for special equipment purchases shall be calculated per 915.404-4800 and added to the fees calculated using the production, R&amp;D, and EM schedules.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) No fee schedule may be used more than once in calculating the maximum total available fee amount for a one-year period.




</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
