<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_2201-120_T48_50326411015">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.2201-120</ph> Policies.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The extent of Government ownership of the nation's energy plant and materials, and the overriding concerns of national defense and security, impose special conditions on personnel and labor relations in the energy program. Such special conditions include the need for continuity of vital operations at DOE installations; retention by DOE of absolute authority on all questions of security in accordance with 10 CFR 706.40; and DOE review of labor expenses under management and operating (M&amp;O) contracts (and certain other contracts) to assure judicious expenditure of public funds. It is the intent of DOE that personnel and labor policies throughout the energy program reflect the best experience of American industry in aiming to achieve the type of stable labor-management relations that are essential to the proper development of the energy program. The following enunciates the principles upon which the DOE policy is based:
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Employment standards.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			M&amp;O contractors (and certain other non-M&amp;O contractors and subcontractors as described in 970.2201-110) are expected to bring experienced, proven personnel from their private operations to staff key positions on the contract and to recruit other well-qualified personnel as needed. Such personnel should be employed and treated during employment without discrimination by reason of race, color, religion, sex, age, disability, or national origin. Contractors are required to take affirmative action to achieve these objectives as required by, among other things, the clause at FAR 52.222-26.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) When the clause at 952.204-2, Security Requirements, is applicable (see 904.404), the Contracting Officer will obtain adequate assurance that the Contractor performed the required review of an uncleared applicant's or of an uncleared employee's background in its determination to select an individual for a position requiring a DOE access authorization.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Security.</i> In accordance with 10 CFR 706.40, on all matters of security at its facilities, DOE retains absolute authority. Neither the regulations or policies pertaining to security, nor their administration, are matters for collective bargaining between the contractor's management and labor. Insofar as DOE security regulations affect the collective bargaining process, the security policies and regulations will be made known to both parties. To the fullest extent feasible, DOE will consult with representatives of the contractor's management and labor when formulating security regulations and policies that may affect the collective bargaining process.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Wages, salaries, and employee benefits.</i> The aspects of wages, hours, and working conditions which are the substance of collective bargaining in normal organized industries will be left to the orderly processes of negotiation and agreement between contractor management and employee representatives with maximum possible freedom from Government interference and consistent with paragraph (a)(5) of this section and 970.2201-140.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Employee relations.</i> The handling of employee relations on contract work, including such matters as the conduct and discipline of the work force and the handling of employee grievances, is part of the normal management responsibility of the contractor.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Collective bargaining.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			DOE review of collective bargaining practices will be premised on the view that management's trusteeship for the operation of the Government facilities includes the duty to adopt practices (which experience has shown) that are fundamental to the equitable resolution of disputes and promote orderly collective bargaining relationships. Practices inconsistent with this view may be objected to if not found to be otherwise clearly warranted.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Consistent with the policy of assuring continuity of operation of vital facilities, all collective bargaining agreements at DOE-owned facilities should provide that grievances and disputes involving the interpretation or application of the agreement will be settled without resorting to strike, lockout, or other interruption of normal operations. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(5)(ii), each collective bargaining agreement entered into during the period of performance of this contract should provide an effective grievance procedure with arbitration as its final step, unless the parties mutually agree upon some other method of assuring continuity of operation for the term of the collective bargaining agreement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) DOE expects its management and operating contractors and the unions representing the contractor's employees to cooperate fully with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) <i>Personnel training.</i> DOE encourages and supports personnel training programs aimed at improving work efficiency or developing needed skills which are not otherwise obtainable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) <i>Working conditions.</i> Accident, fire, health, and occupational hazards associated with DOE activities should be held to a practical minimum level and controlled in the interest of maintenance of health and prevention of accidents. Subject to DOE control, to the extent set forth in the terms and conditions of the contract, contractors are required to:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Maintain comprehensive continuous preventive and protective programs appropriate to the particular activities throughout all operations.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Provide appropriate financial protection in case of occupational disability to employees.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Title to payroll and associated records under certain contracts (see 970.0407-120) for the management and operation of DOE facilities, and for necessary miscellaneous construction incidental to the function of these facilities, shall vest in the Government. Such records are to be disposed of in accordance with the clause at 970.5232-3, Accounts, Records, and Inspection, and other DOE directions. For such contracts, the Solicitor of Labor has granted a tolerance from the Department of Labor regulations to omit from the prescribed labor clauses the requirement for the retention of payrolls and associated records for a period of three years after completion of the contract. Under this tolerance, the records retention requirements for all labor clauses in the contract and the Fair Labor Standards Act are satisfied by disposal of such records in accordance with applicable DOE directives.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
