<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_226-72_T48_50325402141">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.226-72</ph> Energy Policy Act subcontracting goals and reporting requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 926.7008(c), insert the following clause:
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">Energy Policy Act 1992 Subcontracting Goals and Reporting Requirements [December 2024]
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definition.</i> Energy Policy Act (EPAct 1992) target groups, as used in this clause, has the meaning conveyed in 48 CFR 926.7002.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Goals.</i> The Contractor, in performance of this contract, agrees to provide its best efforts to award subcontracts to the following classes of entities—
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Small business concerns controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals or by women: * * * percent;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Historically Black colleges and universities: * * * percent;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Colleges or universities having a student body in which more than 20 percent of the students are Hispanic Americans or Native Americans: * * * percent;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Qualified HUBZone small business concerns: * * * percent.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">[ * * * These goals are stated in a percentage reflecting the relationship of estimated award value of subcontracts to the value of this contract and appear elsewhere in this contract.]
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Reporting requirements.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor agrees to report, on an annual Federal Government fiscal year basis, its progress against the goals by providing the actual annual dollar value of subcontract payments for the preceding 12-month period, and the relationship of those payments to the incurred contract costs for the same period. Reports submitted pursuant to this clause must be received by the Contracting Officer (or designee) not later than 45 days after the end of the reporting period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) If the contract includes reporting requirements under 48 CFR 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan, the Contractor's progress against the goals stated in paragraph (b) of this clause shall be included as an addendum to the Individual Subcontract Report and/or the Summary Subcontract Report using the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (available at <i>https://www.esrs.gov/</i>) for the period that corresponds to the end of the Federal Government fiscal year.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
