<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_2270_T48_503264110114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.2270</ph> Unemployment compensation.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Each state has its own unemployment compensation system to provide payments to workers who become unemployed involuntarily and through no fault of their own. These claims are payable by employers through the state unemployment insurance tax. Some entities such as nonprofits may be permitted to either pay in or opt out. These claims are payable either through the state unemployment insurance tax (pay in) or by reimbursing the state for actual claims paid out to former employees (opt out).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The predictability of paying claims through the state unemployment insurance tax is preferred and highly encouraged. However, an M&amp;O contractor may choose to opt out. A contractor before deciding to opt out, generally performs an analysis of its workforce including size and stability of the workforce, historical turnover rate and historical payout data. This information may also be provided to state regulators who are interested in ensuring that employers who opt out establish an adequate reserve fund to reimburse the state for the claims that are processed for the company's former employees.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) When an M&amp;O contractor opts out of paying for claims through the state's unemployment insurance tax, as permitted and in accordance with state laws, regulations and guidelines, the reimbursement by DOE, in any given year, should generally be limited to the actual incurred cost, but no more than what would have been incurred had the contractor chosen to pay in.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
