<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_204-78_T48_50325402114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.204-78</ph> DOE Directives.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 904.7301, insert the following clause:
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">DOE Directives [December 2024]
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) In performing work under this contract, the Contractor shall comply with the requirements of Department of Energy Directives, or parts thereof, identified in the List of Applicable Directives appended to this contract, identified in the Statement of Work or identified in a special clause within this contract. The Contracting Officer may revise the list of applicable Directives by bilateral modification to the contract. Prior to the modification, the Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor in writing of DOE's intent and provide the contractor with the opportunity to: assess the impact on cost, funding, technical performance, and schedule; and identify any potential inconsistencies between the revised list and the other terms and conditions of the contract. Within 30 days of being notified, the Contractor shall advise the Contracting Officer in writing of the potential impact of the modification. The Contracting Officer and Contractor shall decide whether or not to proceed with the modification. Before executing the modification, they must agree to any appropriate changes to other contract terms and conditions, including cost and schedule, pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled “Changes.”
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Regardless of the performer of the work, the Contractor is responsible for compliance with the requirements of this clause. The Contractor is responsible for flowing down the requirements of this clause to subcontracts at any tier to the extent necessary to ensure the contractor's compliance with the requirements.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
