<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_5219_T48_503264131117">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.5219</ph> Small business subcontracting plan.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 970.1907-8(b), supplement the clause at FAR 52.219-9 with the following:
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">Small Business Subcontracting Plan [December 2024]
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Definitions.</i> “First-tier subcontract” means a subcontract awarded directly by the Contractor for the purpose of acquiring supplies or services (including construction) for performance of a prime contract. It does not include the Contractor's supplier agreements with vendors, such as long-term arrangements for materials or supplies that would benefit multiple contracts and/or the costs of which are normally applied to a Contractor's general and administrative expenses or indirect costs.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">“<i>Management and Operating Contractor Subcontract Reporting Capability (MOSRC) </i>” means a DOE system and associated processes to collect key information about Management and Operating Contractor first-tier subcontracts for reporting to the Small Business Administration.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">“<i>Transaction</i>” means any contract, order, other agreement or modification thereof (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered into by the Contractor acquiring supplies or services (including construction) required solely for performance of the prime contract.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(l)(3) <i>MOSRC.</i> The Contractor shall collect and report data via MOSRC necessary for DOE to meet its agency reporting requirements, as determined by the Small Business Administration. The Contractor shall report first-tier subcontract data in MOSRC. Classified subcontracts shall not be reported. Subcontracts with Controlled Unclassified Information marking shall not be reported if restricted by its category. The Contractor should contact its Contracting Officer if uncertain of reporting requirements. The MOSRC requirement does not replace any other reporting requirements under this clause.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
