<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_904_402_T48_503185112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">904.402</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The basis of Department of Energy's (DOE) industrial security requirements is the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the DOE Organization Act of 1977, as amended, and Executive Orders 13526 and 12829.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(3) DOE has established a counterintelligence program. All DOE elements and contractors managing DOE-owned or leased facilities that require access authorizations, should undertake the necessary precautions to ensure that DOE and covered contractor personnel, programs and resources are properly protected from foreign intelligence threats and activities.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(4) DOE security regulations concerning restricted data are codified at 10 CFR part 1045.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(5) Section 234B of the Atomic Energy Act (42 U.S.C. 2282b) requires that DOE contracts include a clause providing for appropriate reductions in fees or amounts paid to the contractor under the contract in the event of violations of any rule, regulation, or order relating to the safeguarding or security of Restricted Data or other classified information. The clause is required for all DOE prime contracts that involve any possibility of contractor access to Restricted Data or other classified information. The clause specifies various degrees of violations and the amount of reduction attributable to each degree. The clause at 952.242-71, Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, or Other Incentives, shall be used to comply with 42 U.S.C. 2282b (unless the clause at 970.5215-3, Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, and Other Incentives—Facility Management Contracts is used). See <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344"
                  href="Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344.dita#Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344">942.71</xref>(d) for the clause's prescription.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Part 927 contains policies and procedures for safeguarding classified information in patent applications and patents.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
