<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_1504-102_T48_5032641714">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.1504-102</ph> Fee policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Basic principles.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			M&amp;O contracts are typically cost-reimbursement type contracts with incentive fees. An M&amp;O contract, however, may be of any contract type or combination of types (for example, firm-fixed-price, cost-plus-award-fee, cost-plus-incentive-fee, multiple-incentive, etc.). Regardless of contract type, an M&amp;O contract may contain work elements using different incentives.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract shall only be used if approved in advance by the Senior Procurement Executive (SPE) or designee. The fee for a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract may not exceed the limits at FAR 15.404-4(c)(4)(i).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) A base fee amount may only be used if approved in advance by the SPE or designee.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Incentive fees allocated to evaluation periods under cost-reimbursement type contracts should, to the greatest extent appropriate, be tied to a specific portion of the maximum total available fee.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) The maximum total available fee amount may not exceed the fee derived from this subsection unless approved in advance by the SPE or designee. A request to allow a higher fee must be in writing and must clearly explain why the situation merits consideration.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Typically, only a situation where either unusually difficult objective performance incentives would be used or where successful performance would provide extraordinary value would merit consideration.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) When a contract requires a contractor to use its own facilities, equipment, or other resources for contract performance (<i>e.g.,</i> when there is no letter-of-credit financing), consideration may be given, subject to approval by the SPE or designee, to allowing a maximum total available fee amount above the amount calculated by this subsection.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) Each M&amp;O contract must set forth in the contract (or in a Performance Evaluation and Measurement Plan (PEMP) or similar document) the methods that will be used to rate the contractor's performance and to determine the fee the contractor's performance will earn. The DOE Contracting Officer must ensure all important areas of contract performance are specified in the contract or in a PEMP (or similar document), even if such areas are not assigned a specific portion of the maximum total available fee the contractor might earn.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) An M&amp;O contract is an “incentive contract” as that term is used in FAR subpart 16.4. FAR subpart 16.4 prohibits the use in a contract of other than cost incentives without also providing a cost incentive (or constraint).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Award fee not earned during the award fee cycle shall not be carried over to any future award fee cycle. Consequently—
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) When the award fee cycle consists of one evaluation period, unearned award fee amounts may not be carried over from one evaluation period to the next.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(B) When the award fee cycle consists of two or more evaluation periods, at the sole discretion of the Contracting Officer, unearned award fee amounts may be carried over from one evaluation period to the next, so long as the periods are within the same award fee cycle.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) C<i>oordination requirements.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Before issuing a competitive solicitation, the Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA) must coordinate the greatest maximum total available fee amount the HCA will accept with the SPE or designee. A competitive solicitation must identify the greatest maximum total available fee amount the Government will accept and may invite offerors to propose a lower fee amount.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) Before beginning to negotiate an extension to an existing contract, the HCA must coordinate the greatest maximum total available fee amount the HCA will accept, and the maximum total available fee amount targeted for negotiation with the SPE or designee.




</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
