<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_226-70_T48_50325402139">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.226-70</ph> Subcontracting goals under section 3021(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 926.7008(b)(1), insert the following provision:
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">Subcontracting Goals Under Section 3021(A) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-486) [December 2024]
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definition.</i> Energy Policy Act (EPAct 1992) target groups, as used in this provision, has the meaning conveyed in 48 CFR 926.7002.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Section 3021 of the EPAct 1992 establishes a goal of award of 10 percent of the contract dollar value for prime and subcontract EPAct 1992 awards to EPAct 1992 target groups.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Offeror, if other than one of the three groups specified in paragraph (a) of this clause, shall submit, as part of its business management proposal or, if this solicitation requires the submission of a Small Business Subcontracting Plan, then as part of that plan, unless otherwise stated in the proposal preparation instructions, individual subcontracting goals for each of the EPAct 1992 target groups. Individual goals shall be expressed in terms of a percentage of the Offeror's proposed contract dollar value. In addition, the Offeror shall provide a description of the nature of the effort to be performed by each of the three groups, and, if possible, the identity of the contemplated subcontractor(s).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Unless otherwise stated, such goals shall be considered in the evaluation of the Business Management Proposal as discussed in Section M of this solicitation or, if applicable, as part of the evaluation of the Small Business Subcontracting Plan.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
