<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_2704-3_T48_503264114111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.2704-3</ph> Contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 970.5227-1, Rights in Data—Facilities, in management and operating contracts which do not contain the clause at 970.5227-2, Rights in Data—Technology Transfer. The Contracting Officer may insert, with concurrence of Patent Counsel, the clause at 970.5227-1, Rights in Data—Facilities, in other contracts where Government facilities are being constructed, modified, or in decontamination and decommissioning. The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate I in contracts where access to Category C-24 restricted data, as set forth in 10 CFR part 725, is to be provided to contractors. The Contracting Officer shall include the clause with its Alternate II in contracts where Government facilities are being constructed, modified, or in decontamination and decommissioning, and it is anticipated that further solicitation may be required to complete the project.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 970.5227-2, Rights in Data—Technology Transfer, in management and operating contracts which contain the clause at 970.5227-3, Technology Transfer Mission. The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate I in contracts where access to Category C-24 restricted data, as set forth in 10 CFR part 725, is to be provided to contractors. The Contracting Officer shall include the clause with its Alternate II in contracts where Government facilities are being constructed, modified, or in decontamination and decommissioning, and it is anticipated that further solicitation may be required to complete the project.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
