<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_242-71_T48_50325402162">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.242-71</ph> Conditional payment of fee, profit, and other incentives.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at 923.7003(f) and <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344"
                  href="Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344.dita#Subpart_942_71_T48_50324344">942.71</xref>(d), insert the following clause: (Note: If the clause at 952.204-2, Security Requirements, is not included in the contract, the security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information requirements of the clause do not apply; if the clause at 952.250-70, Nuclear Hazards Indemnity Agreement, is not included in this contract, the environment, safety and health requirements of the clause do not apply.)
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, and Other Incentives [December 2024]
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i>
                              </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for a period</i> means the quantity the Contracting Officer or fee determining official determines the Contractor is due for its performance prior to a separate determination that the Contractor did not comply with a term or condition of the contract or experienced a failure relating to: environment, safety, and health or security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) If the contract includes incentives allocable to more than one period, the amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for a period includes the allocable amount of payment for each such incentive for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives. Unless stated otherwise, the allocable amount is the total amount divided by the number of periods the incentive covered.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Amount actually payable to the Contractor for a period</i> means: (the amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for the period) less (the amount of any reduction under this clause and the amount of any reductions under other clauses to the amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for the period).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>General.</i>
                              </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) (<i>Note:</i> If the clause at 952.204-2, Security Requirements, is not included in this contract, the security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information requirements of this clause do not apply; if the clause at 952.250-70, Nuclear Hazards Indemnity Agreement, is not included in this contract, the environment, safety and health requirements of this clause do not apply.)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">The amount of payment of otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for any period under this contract is dependent upon the Contractor's and the Contractor's employees' compliance during the period with the performance requirements of this contract relating to:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) environment, safety and health (ES&amp;H), which includes worker safety and health (WS&amp;H); and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(ii) security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) The ES&amp;H performance requirements of this contract are set forth in its ES&amp;H terms and conditions, including in some cases a DOE approved contractor (Integrated Safety Management System (ISMS) or similar document. Financial incentives for timely mission accomplishment or cost effectiveness shall never compromise or impede full and effective implementation of the ISMS and full ES&amp;H compliance.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(3) The security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information performance requirements of this contract are set forth in the clause of this contract entitled, “Security requirements,” the clause (if it is included) of this contract entitled “Laws, Regulations, and DOE Directives,” and in other terms and conditions.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(4) If the Contractor does not, in any period, meet the performance requirements of this contract relating to ES&amp;H or security or the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information, the Contracting Officer may, per this clause, reduce the amount of payment of otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit or other incentives.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Amount of Reduction.</i>
                              </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) If in any period (see paragraph (c)(5) of this clause) the Contractor does not meet the performance requirements of this contract relating to ES&amp;H or security or the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information, the Contracting Officer will unilaterally determine the amount of reduction to the amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for the period based on the severity of the performance failure pursuant to the degrees of failure specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause. The percent reduction for each performance failure will be: not less than 26% nor more than 100% for a first degree failure; not less than 11% nor more than 26% for a second degree failure; and no more than 11% for a third degree failure.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) For a reduction allocable to more than one period, the Government will make the allocation at the end of the period in which it determines the total amount of the reduction. Unless stated otherwise, the allocable amount is the total reduction amount divided by the number of periods the reduction covered.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Government will reduce the payment of otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives as soon as practicable after the end of the period in which the performance failure occurs. If the Government is not aware of the failure when it occurs, it will make the reduction as soon as practical after becoming aware.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) In determining the reduction to the amount of payment and the applicability of mitigating factors, the Contracting Officer must consider the Contractor's overall performance in meeting the ES&amp;H or security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information performance requirements of the contract. Such consideration must include performance against any specific performance criteria/requirements that provide additional definition, guidance for the amount of reduction, or guidance for the applicability of mitigating factors. In all cases, the Contracting Officer must consider mitigating factors that may warrant a reduction below the reduction that would be appropriate absent mitigating factors. Mitigating factors include, but are not limited to, the following (paragraphs (c)(4)(v), (vi), (vii) and (viii) of this clause apply to ES&amp;H only).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Degree of control the Contractor had over the event or incident.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Efforts the Contractor had made to anticipate and mitigate the possibility of the event in advance.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Contractor's self-identification and response to the event to mitigate impacts and recurrence.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) General status (trend and absolute performance) of: ES&amp;H and compliance in related areas and safeguarding Restricted Data and other classified information and compliance in related areas.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(v) Contractor's demonstration to the Contracting Officer's satisfaction that the principles of industrial ES&amp;H standards are routinely practiced.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Event caused by “Good Samaritan” act by the Contractor (<i>e.g.,</i> offsite emergency response).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Contractor's demonstration that a performance measurement system is routinely used to improve and maintain ES&amp;H performance (including effective resource allocation) and to support DOE corporate decision-making (<i>e.g.,</i> policy, ES&amp;H programs).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(viii) Contractor's demonstration that an Operating Experience and Feedback Program is functioning that demonstrably affects continuous improvement in ES&amp;H by use of lessons-learned and best practices inter- and intra-DOE sites.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) The Contracting Officer will, for purposes of this clause, at the time of contract award or as soon as possible after contract award, allocate the total amount of fee, profit, and other incentives that is available under the contract to equal periods of [insert 6 or 12] months to run sequentially for the term of the contract, including options. The amount to be allocated to each period shall equal: (the average monthly amount available during the term of the contact) multiplied by (the number of months for each period).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Reductions to the amount of payments the Contractor has received for earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives under this and other clauses.</i>
                              </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The amount of the reduction under this clause, in combination with the amount of any reduction under any other clause, shall not exceed the amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for the period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) If at any time during the contract any reductions under this clause or other clauses result in the sum of the amount of payments the Contractor has received for earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives to exceed the sum of the amounts of actually payable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall immediately return the excess to the Government.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) At the end of the contract—
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) The Government will pay the Contractor the amount by which the sum of amounts actually payable to the Contractor exceeds the sum of the payments the Contractor has received; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The Contractor shall return to the Government the amount by which the sum of the payments the Contractor has received exceeds the sum of the amounts actually payable to the Contractor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Environment, Safety and Health (ES&amp;H).</i> Performance failures occur if the Contractor does not comply with the contract's ES&amp;H terms and conditions, including applicable ES&amp;H laws, regulations, DOE directives, and DOE approved Contractor ISMS. The degrees of performance failure under which reductions of earned or fixed fee, profit, or other incentives will be determined are:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) First Degree: Performance failures that are most adverse to ES&amp;H. They include:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Failure to develop and obtain required DOE approval of an ISMS, if an ISMS is required.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(The Government will perform necessary reviews in a timely manner and not unreasonably withhold approval.)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(ii) Performance failures determined, per applicable ES&amp;H laws, regulations, or DOE directives to have resulted in, or that could reasonably be expected to result in, serious injury or death to a worker.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(iii) Occurrence of any accident or event that meets the criteria of Appendix A of DOE Order 225.1B (or successor Order) and results in a determination to conduct a Federal Accident Investigation Board.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) Second Degree: Performance failures that are significantly adverse to ES&amp;H. They include:
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(i) Failures to comply with an approved ISMS, if an ISMS is required.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(ii) Failures that have been determined, per applicable ES&amp;H laws, regulations, or DOE directives, to have resulted in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, an actual injury, exposure, or exceedance that occurred or nearly occurred but had minor practical long-term health consequences.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(iii) A breakdown of the Integrated Safety Management System.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(iv) Non-compliance with applicable ES&amp;H laws, regulations, or DOE directives actually resulting in an accident that meets the criteria of Appendix A of DOE Order 225.1B (or successor Order) but not resulting in a determination to conduct a Federal Accident Investigation Board.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(v) Non-compliance with applicable ES&amp;H laws, regulations, or DOE directives that results in a near miss of an accident or event that could have resulted in an adverse effect and a determination to conduct a Federal Accident Investigation Board. (A near miss is a situation in which an inappropriate action occurs, or a necessary action is omitted, that does not result in an adverse effect.)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(3) Third Degree: Performance failures that have been determined per applicable ES&amp;H laws, regulations, or DOE directives to reflect a lack of focus on improving ES&amp;H. They include:
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(i) Non-compliance with applicable ES&amp;H laws, regulations, or DOE directives actually resulting in potential breakdown of the Integrated Safety Management System. The following performance failures or performance failures of similar import will be considered third degree:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(A) Failure to implement effective corrective actions to address deficiencies/non-compliances documented through external (<i>e.g.,</i> Federal) oversight and/or reported per DOE Order 231.B (or successor Order) requirements; internal oversight of 10 CFR parts 830, 835, 850, and 851; or DOE Orders 227.1A and 436.1 (or successor Order) requirements.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(B) Multiple similar non-compliances identified by external (<i>e.g.,</i> Federal) oversight that in aggregate indicate a significant programmatic breakdown.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(C) Non-compliances that: have, or that may have, significant negative impacts to the worker, the public, or the environment; or indicate a significant programmatic breakdown.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(D) Failure to notify DOE upon discovery of events or conditions where notification is required by the terms and conditions of the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Security or Safeguarding Restricted Data and Other Classified Information.</i> Performance failures occur if the Contractor does not comply with the terms and conditions of this contract relating to the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. The degrees of performance failure under which reductions of fee, profit, or other incentives occur will be determined are as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) First Degree: Performance failures that have been determined, in accordance with applicable law, DOE regulation, or directive, to have resulted in, or that can reasonably be expected to result in, exceptionally grave damage to the national security. The following are examples of performance failures or performance failures of similar import that will be considered first degree:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and DOE directives actually resulting in, or creating a risk of, loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in a Special Access Program (SAP), information identified as sensitive compartmented information (SCI), or high risk nuclear weapons-related data.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Contractor actions that result in a breakdown of the safeguards and security management system that can reasonably be expected to result in the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in an SAP, information identified as SCI, or high risk nuclear weapons-related data.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Failure to promptly report the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in an SAP, information identified as SCI, or high risk nuclear weapons-related data.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Failure to timely implement corrective actions stemming from the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in a SAP, information identified as SCI, or high risk nuclear weapons-related data.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Second Degree: Performance failures that have been determined, in accordance with applicable law, DOE regulation, or directive, to have actually resulted in, or that can reasonably be expected to result in, serious damage to the national security. The following are examples of performance failures or performance failures of similar import that will be considered second degree:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and DOE directives actually resulting in, or creating risk of, loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Secret.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Contractor actions that result in a breakdown of the safeguards and security management system that can reasonably be expected to result in the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data, or other information classified as Secret.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Failure to promptly report the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data or other classified information regardless of classification (except for information covered by paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this clause).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Failure to timely implement corrective actions stemming from the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data or other classified information classified as Secret.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Third Degree: Performance failures that have been determined, in accordance with applicable law, regulation, or DOE directive, to have actually resulted in, or that can reasonably be expected to result in, undue risk to the common defense and security. This category includes performance failures that result from a lack of Contractor management and/or employee attention to the proper safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. These performance failures may be indicators of future, more severe performance failures and/or conditions that if identified and corrected early would prevent serious incidents. The following are examples of performance failures or performance failures of similar import that will be considered third degree:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and DOE directives actually resulting in, or creating risk of, loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Restricted Data or other information classified as Confidential.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Failure to promptly report alleged or suspected violations of laws, regulations, or directives pertaining to the safeguarding of Restricted Data or other classified information.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Failure to identify or timely execute corrective actions to mitigate or eliminate identified vulnerabilities and reduce residual risk relating to the protection of Restricted Data or other classified information in accordance with the Contractor's Safeguards and Security Plan or other security plan, as applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Contractor actions that result in performance failures that unto themselves pose minor risk, but when viewed in the aggregate indicate degradation in the integrity of the Contractor's safeguards and security management system relating to the protection of Restricted Data and other classified information.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
